doc: add Mir's CI documentation (#3434)
canonical/mir: doc/sphinx/reference/continuous-integration.md

# Mir Continuous Integration

This document outlines the journey of a contribution to Mir through its continuous integration
pipeline.

## Overview

There are a number of components to this story, and a diagram might make for a good overview:

```{mermaid} continuous-integration.mmd
```

These are run at different stages in the pipeline, balancing the time it takes to run and the
breadth of testing. We'll discuss those in more detail below.

## Mir builds

> We use [Spread](https://github.com/snapcore/spread) (or rather, our

Reviewer: Maybe we can start this out with a little bit of context setting, e.g.

```suggestion
When we open pull requests in the Mir repository or update the `main` branch, we would like to validate that our work is correct by running our test suite. To facilitate this, we use [Spread](https://github.com/snapcore/spread) (or rather, our
```

[lightly patched version](https://snapcraft.io/spread-mir-ci)) to build Mir across a number of

> environments. These are defined in

Reviewer: I personally think that "these" is a bit ambiguous here:

```suggestion
environments. These environments are defined in
```

[`spread.yaml`](https://github.com/canonical/mir/blob/main/spread.yaml), with the actual build
tasks maintained under [`spread/build`](https://github.com/canonical/mir/tree/main/spread/build).

> Our focus of development is the most recent Ubuntu LTS, and we maintain builds for any more recent,
> supported Ubuntu releases. We also build for stable releases of other Linux distributions that
> we have community interest on.
> 
> Additionally, there are builds using alternative toolchains (Clang) and development versions of
> Ubuntu and those other distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our focus of development is the most recent Ubuntu LTS, and we maintain builds for any more recent,
supported Ubuntu releases. We also build for stable releases of other Linux distributions that
we have community interest on. We also run builds using alternative toolchains (Clang) and development versions of
Ubuntu and those other distributions.
```

We also maintain Mir branches for all previous Ubuntu LTS releases under support. These will only
receive security updates and the occasional bug fix. These will always be
[`release/` branches on GitHub](https://github.com/canonical/mir/branches/all?query=release%2F),
and releases published on [the GitHub release pages](https://github.com/canonical/mir/releases).

> All those builds [run on GitHub](https://github.com/canonical/mir/actions/workflows/spread.yml),
> triggered by pull requests and pushes to `main` or `release/` branches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The action of **opening a pull request** or **pushing a commit to the `main` or `release/*` branches** triggers a build [to run on GitHub](https://github.com/canonical/mir/actions/workflows/spread.yml).
```

Author: Reworded.

### Acceptance tests

[`tests/acceptance-tests`](https://github.com/canonical/mir/tree/main/tests/acceptance-tests)
run more high-level tests, ensuring we maintain the contracts with external components as well as
our own loadable modules' interfaces.

One major part of this is [WLCS](https://github.com/canonical/wlcs) - asserting the behaviour
of Mir's Wayland frontend is to specification of the protocol.

### Integration tests

In [`tests/integration-tests`](https://github.com/canonical/mir/tree/main/tests/integration-tests)
lie other high level tests, ensuring we correctly integrate with some system components.

### Performance and smoke tests

Lastly, [`tests/performance-tests`](https://github.com/canonical/mir/tree/main/tests/performance-tests)
holds a handful of performance-related tests, collecting some metrics about how the system
performs end-to-end - and verifying that it works in the first place.

We also run these on a number of hardware platforms in our testing lab for every build of `main`.

## Sanitizer runs

In addition to the above, for every push to `main` we build and run the tests using the following
sanitizers:

- **Undefined Behaviour**

>   This is now enforced, and no undefined behaviour is reported by ubsan.

Reviewer: What do you mean by this? Does the tool fail to report undefined behavior? Or do we currently not report any undefined behavior because we are undefined-behavior-free?

multi-GPU (usually hybrid) ones. We maintain a matrix of test coverage
[in this spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1kUbTSt4zWVpTtgZNJvvxCdugsRUv6C5PK9Xw5dxppCc/edit#gid=893560997).

These tests ultimately verify the full story end-to-end, installing the snaps on a range of
Ubuntu versions (Core and classic alike) and verify behaviours and visuals through a number of
scenarios.

It's a somewhat complex web of things happening, so again a diagram might help

```{mermaid} end-to-end-testing.mmd
```

[checkbox-mir](https://github.com/canonical/checkbox-mir/) is the test orchestrator, collecting
the different tests (smoke, performance and functional) and packaging them in a way that can be
consumed by our lab setup. It's using our own [mir-ci](https://github.com/canonical/mir-ci) tests
along with the [mir-test-tools](https://github.com/canonical/mir-test-tools) snap.

You can find more information about Checkbox itself
[in its documentation](https://github.com/canonical/checkbox) - it's a system used by our
certification team, running thousands of tests on hundreds of systems every day.

> The Jenkins job definitions go into a private repository, as they contains credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jenkins job definitions go into a private repository, as they contain credentials.
```
